---
id: 710
title: 'The earliest translation of a passage from the Suśrutasaṃhitā?'
date: '2021-06-10T23:32:49-06:00'
author: 'Dominik Wujastyk'
layout: post
guid: 'https://sushrutaproject.org/?p=710'
permalink: '/?p=710'
categories:
    - Announcements
---

In a 1991 study of scientific and techical eductation in pre-independence India, S. N. Sen drew attentention to a short translation from the *Suśrutasaṃhitā* that appeared in a letter dated 1824 written from John Tytler to Troyer (<span class="zp-InText-zp-ID--2579494-KSEBBBX8--wp710 zp-InText-Citation loading" rel="{ 'pages': '160-161', 'items': '{2579494:KSEBBBX8}', 'format': '(%a%, %d%, %p%)', 'brackets': '', 'etal': '', 'separator': '', 'and': '' }"></span>). The letter contained the following text:

> Translation of two chapters of the First Part of the Soosroota” (by John Tytler)
> 
> <cite>CHAPTER FOURTH  
> “Now here we shall explain the chapter of conversation to him who has attained the reading but has not expounded it according to the sense. It is like a load of Sandal Wood upon an ass it is merely a cause of fatiguer \[*sic*\]. Here is also (a stanza).   
>   
> “As an ass bearing a bundle of Sandal Wood has a knowledge of its being a load not of its being Sandal Wood, so indeed, they who having read many Shastras are yet ignorant of their meaning carry (their knowledge) like asses.-  
> “On this account (in these 120 chapters) every word, foot, verse, half verse is to be elucidated and to be heard, on which account (the following things) are subtle, Substance, Taste, Quality, Strength, assimilation, Humours, Elements, Foesces, Viscera, Organs, nerves, Tendons, Joints, bones, the formation of the foetus, the partition of things (which are) assembled together, then the taking out of extraneous bodies concealed in the body, the ascertaining of inflammation, the distinction of fractures, the curable, alleviable or incurable nature of diseases and also other miscellaneous objects these being considered a thousand times, may produce confusion in the intellect even of a person of pure and large understanding what (will it do) again with a person of little understanding. Hence it is necessary that each word each foot, sloka and half sloka is to be described and be attended to. Of those occurring matters which are objects of other Shastras and which are introduced here through necessity the explanation is to be heard from learned men because it is not indeed possible to make one Shastra comprise all Shastras. Here there are verses, a reader of one Shastra only will certainly not understand that Shastra. Hence that Physician only who has heard many Shastras can well understand that Physician who having received the Shastra uttered from the mouth of his Gooroo and having studied it frequently, practises he is a (real) Physician others indeed are robbers. The books are called “Oupadhenava”, “Ourabhra Saushuta Pauskalavata”. . . . these are the roots of the other Shastras of Surgery: let (the Physician) study them.”  
>   
> CHAPTER FIFTH  
> “Now here we shall explain the preliminary collection of Instruments. There are three kinds of operation, the preliminary operation, the chief operation, the concluding operation. We shall explain these according to every disease. In this Shastra, on account of the importance of cutting operations we shall first explain cutting operations and the things necessary for them. Now here cutting operations are of eight kinds, namely Cutting, Dividing, Scarification, piercing, Exploring (foreign bodies lodged in the body), Extracting the same, evacuating matter, (and) stiching (wounds). Now by a physician desirous of performing any operation first these things are to be collected viz. Instruments, Knives, caustics, Fire, Probes, Cupping Glasses, Leeches, Gourds, Cauterizing needles, Cotton, Rages, Threads, leaves, Silk, Honey, Ghee, Fat, Milk, Oil, Delicate food, Decoctions, Plasters, Extracts, Fans, cold and hot water, boiling pots, etcetera and also assistants attentive, steady and strong. Then in an auspicious lunar day and lunar half day and hour and mansion of the moon and having worshipped Fire the Brahmins and the Physicians by milk, by whole rice, by drink and by jewels having caused the diseased persons to sit with his face to the east and having restrained himself, he (the diseased person) having made and a proper examination of the mantras and having eaten light food, then the Physician having his face to the east and avoiding the vital parts, the nerves, sinews, joints, bones, canals, let him introduce the knife regularly, according as matter is visible. At once let him lift up the knife quickly. But in large abscesses two fingers or three fingers are the extent for the knife. Then thus Large, of equable surface well circumscribed these are the good qualities of abscesses . There is a Stanza. Extensive; large well circumscribed not connected (with any vital part) having found a good time the abscess (with those propertie!’) is fit for operations. Boldness, quickness in work, sharpness of knives, want of the perspiration, of trembling and or ignorance in Physician (all this) is fit for an operation.   
> “And one inflammation being uncured (the Physician) having perceived (this) by his internal perception let him make another inflammation (by counter irritation). There is a verse. Whenever a Physician may know a fistula and whenever also there exists a deep ulcer, there let him make a (contra irritative) inflammation then the disease will not remain.   
> “Now an oblique incision is directed (to be made) in the Eyebrow, the cheek, the temple, the fore­head, the eye lid, the lips, the Gums, the armpit, the abdomen and the groin; wise (Physician) may cause, make a lunar or solar incision (circular) in the hands and feet and a semilunar form also in the arms and Penis.”</cite>

Tytler was a fascinating character, central to the educational experiment that was the Native Medical Institute in Calcutta during the early decades of the nineteenth century (<span class="zp-InText-zp-ID--2579494-X85V234F-_-2579494-KSEBBBX8--wp710 zp-InText-Citation loading" rel="{ 'pages': 'np--138-139', 'items': '{2579494:X85V234F},{2579494:KSEBBBX8}', 'format': '(%a%, %d%, %p%)', 'brackets': '', 'etal': '', 'separator': '', 'and': '' }"></span>). The letter in which the above translation appeared was sent to Captain A. Troyer, Secretary of the Sanskrit College , on January 29, 1834. Sen does not exactly document the location of this letter, but it may have appeared in the *Minute Book of the Sanskrit College* (other letters to Troyer are found in the West Bengal State Archives.)

## References

<div class="zp-Zotpress zp-Zotpress-InTextBib wp-block-group zp-Post-710" id="zp-InTextBib-zotpress-8748e503df297a80d632930e9f869b2f"> <span class="ZP_ITEM_KEY" style="display: none;">{2579494:KSEBBBX8};{2579494:X85V234F},{2579494:KSEBBBX8}</span> <span class="ZP_STYLE" style="display: none;">chicago-author-date</span> <span class="ZP_SORTBY" style="display: none;">default</span> <span class="ZP_ORDER" style="display: none;">asc</span> <span class="ZP_TITLE" style="display: none;"></span> <span class="ZP_SHOWIMAGE" style="display: none;"></span> <span class="ZP_SHOWTAGS" style="display: none;"></span> <span class="ZP_DOWNLOADABLE" style="display: none;"></span> <span class="ZP_NOTES" style="display: none;"></span> <span class="ZP_ABSTRACT" style="display: none;"></span> <span class="ZP_CITEABLE" style="display: none;"></span> <span class="ZP_TARGET" style="display: none;"></span> <span class="ZP_URLWRAP" style="display: none;"></span> <span class="ZP_FORCENUM" style="display: none;">0</span> <span class="ZP_HIGHLIGHT" style="display: none;"></span> <span class="ZP_POSTID" style="display: none;">710</span><div class="zp-List loading"><div class="zp-SEO-Content"></div></div></div>